.TH DBMAIL-USERS 1 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
dbmail-users
\-
manages the DBMail user database.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.nf
\fBdbmail-users\fR [\fIquiet\fR] \fIa\fR \fIusername\fR \fIpassword\fR \fIclientid\fR \fImaxmail\fR [\fIaliases\fR]
\fBdbmail-users\fR [\fIquiet\fR] \fIe\fR \fIusername\fR
\fBdbmail-users\fR [\fIquiet\fR] \fId\fR \fIusername\fR
\fBdbmail-users\fR [\fIquiet\fR] \fIf\fR \fIalias\fR \fIdeliver-to\fR
\fBdbmail-users\fR [\fIquiet\fR] \fIx\fR \fIalias\fR \fIdeliver-to\fR
\fBdbmail-users\fR [\fIquiet\fR] \fIc\fR \fIusername\fR [\fI-u username\fR] [[\fI-p|+p|xp|-5|+5|d5|D5 password\fR] | [\fI-P[:filename]\fR]] [\fI-c clientid\fR] [\fI-q maxmail\fR] [\fI+a alias\fR] [\fI-a alias\fR]
\fBdbmail-users\fR [\fIquiet\fR] \fIs\fR [\fIusername\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
The \fBdbmail-users\fR program enables you to manage the \fBDBMail\fR users. 
It lets you add, delete and change users as well as show information about
a specific user or display a list of existing users. It also has the capability
of adding/removing separate aliases.

.SH OPTIONS
.SH MODE OPTIONS
.IP "\fB -a \fR user"
Add a user
.IP "\fB -d \fR user"
Delete a user
.IP "\fB -c \fR user"
Change details for a user
.IP "\fB -e \fR user"
Empty all mailboxes for a user
.IP "\fB -l \fR uspec"
List information for matching users
.IP "\fB -x \fR alias"
Create an external forwarding address
.IP "\fB -i \fR"
Enter an interactive user management console.

.SH MINOR OPTIONS
.IP "\fB -w \fR passwd"
Specify user's password on the command line
.IP "\fB -W \fR [file]"
Read from a file or prompt for a user's password
.IP "\fB -p \fR pwtype"
Password type may be one of the following:
cleartext, crypt, md5-hash, md5-digest,
crypt-raw, md5-hash-raw, md5-digest-raw
.IP "\fB -P \fR [file]"
Pull encrypted password from the shadow file
.IP "\fB -u \fR user"
New username (only useful for -c, change)
.IP "\fB -g \fR cid"
Assign the user to a client group.
.IP "\fB -m \fR max"
Set the maximum mail quota in <bytes>B,
<kbytes>K, or <mbytes>M, default in bytes
If set to 0, there will be no limit.
.IP "\fB -s \fR alia.."
Adds a list of recipient aliases. An alias is an e-mail address that is being 
delivered to the \fBDBMail\fR mailsystem and should be delivered to this user.
.IP "\fB -S \fR alia.."
Removes a list of recipient aliases (wildcards supported)
.IP "\fB -t \fR fwds.."
Adds a list of deliver-to forwards
.IP "\fB -T \fR fwds.."
Removes a list of deliver-to forwards (wildcards supported)


.SH COMMON OPTIONS
.IP "\fB-f\fR configfile"
Specify an alternate config file. The utilities are currently hardcoded to use
/etc/dbmail.conf for their configs, and will halt if the config file
cannot be found. Use the \fB\-f\fR configfile option to specify your
system's preferred config file location.
.IP \fB-q\fR
Quietly skip interactive prompts and helpful status messages which
would otherwise be printed to \fIstdout\fR.  Use two \fB-q\fR's to
silence errors which would otherwise be printed to \fIstderr\fR.
.IP \fB-n\fR
Show the intended action but do not perform it, as though no to all.
.IP \fB-y\fR
Perform all proposed actions, as though yes to all.
.IP \fB-v\fR
Operate verbosely.
Some of the utilities in the DBMail suite can take two \fB-v\fR's
for extra verbosity. Those which don't understand this convention
won't complain about having the extra \fB-v\fR and will simply
operate at their normal verbosity.
.IP \fB-V\fR
Show the version and copyright, then exit.
.IP \fB-h\fR
Show a brief summary of options, then exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.BI
\fBdbmail-users\fR a foo secret 0 0 foo@bar.net foo@bar.org
This will add a user foo with password secret. This user will not have any limit on the mail
she/he will receive. E-mail to foo@bar.net and foo@bar.org are delivered to this user (user foo).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Errors and notifications are send to the trace output as set 
in the \fBDBMail\fR configfile.
.SH BUGS
.PP
No known bugs.
.SH LICENSE
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
DBMail and it's components are (c) IC&S and distributed under the GPL. 
.SH AUTHOR(S)
.na
.nf
Eelco van Beek
Roel Rozendaal
IC&S 
Koningsweg 4
3582 GE Utrecht
http://www.ic-s.nl
