.TH DBMAIL-LMTPD 1 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
dbmail-lmtpd
\-
receive messages from an MTA supporting the Lightweight
Mail Transport Protocol, as specified in RFC 2033.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.nf
\fBdbmail-lmtpd\fR [\fB-f\fR configfile] [\fB-p\fR pidfile] [\fB\-nvVh\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
The \fBdbmail-lmtpd\fR daemon will spawn child processes as specified in 
the \fBdbmail.conf\fR file. These processes listen, by default, on port 24
of the localhost interface. Mail Transfer Agents, MTA's such as Postfix and
Exim, speak LMTP to their Mail Delivery Agents which receive and store
messages. DBMail implements such a system using a database backend.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-f\fR configfile"
Specify an alternate config file. The daemons are currently hardcoded to use
/etc/dbmail.conf for their configs, and will halt if the config file
cannot be found. Use the \fB\-f\fR configfile option to specify your
system's preferred config file location.
.IP "\fB\-p\fR pidfile"
Specify an alternate pid file. The daemons are currently hardcoded to use
/var/run/dbmail-<daemon> for their pid files, and will halt if the pid file
cannot be written. Use the \fB\-p\fR pidfile option to place the pid file
in your system's preferred location.
.IP \fB-n\fR
No daemonize. The program remains attached to the console
from which it was started. This is quite useful for debugging when
combined with the \fB-v\fR option.
.IP \fB-v\fR
Operate verbosely. For daemons, this may only be useful
with the \fB-n\fR option which keeps the program bound to the console.
Some of the utilities in the DBMail suite can take two \fB-v\fR's
for extra verbosity. Those which don't understand this convention
won't complain about having the extra \fB-v\fR and will simply
operate at their normal verbosity.
.IP \fB-V\fR
Show the version and copyright, then exit.
.IP \fB-h\fR
Show a brief summary of options, then exit.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Errors and notifications are send to the trace output as set 
in the \fBDBMail\fR configfile.
.SH BUGS
.PP
Not all of the features recommended by RFC 2033 are implemented.
.SH LICENSE
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
DBMail and its components are (c) IC&S and distributed under the GPL. 
.SH AUTHOR(S)
.na
.nf
Aaron Stone
Open Source Programmer
Palo Alto, California
USA
