.TH DBMAIL-ADDUSER 1 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
dbmail-adduser
\-
Adds mailusers to the \fBDbmail\fR mailsystem
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.nf
\fBdbmail-adduser\fR [\fIquiet\fR] \fIa\fR \fIusername\fR \fIpassword\fR \fIclientid\fR \fImaxmail\fR [\fIaliases\fR]
\fBdbmail-adduser\fR [\fIquiet\fR] \fIe\fR \fIusername\fR
\fBdbmail-adduser\fR [\fIquiet\fR] \fId\fR \fIusername\fR
\fBdbmail-adduser\fR [\fIquiet\fR] \fIf\fR \fIalias\fR \fIdeliver-to\fR
\fBdbmail-adduser\fR [\fIquiet\fR] \fIx\fR \fIalias\fR \fIdeliver-to\fR
\fBdbmail-adduser\fR [\fIquiet\fR] \fIc\fR \fIusername\fR [\fI-u username\fR] [[\fI-p|+p|xp|-5|+5|d5|D5 password\fR] | [\fI-P[:filename]\fR]] [\fI-c clientid\fR] [\fI-q maxmail\fR] [\fI+a alias\fR] [\fI-a alias\fR]
\fBdbmail-adduser\fR [\fIquiet\fR] \fIs\fR [\fIusername\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
The \fBdbmail-adduser\fR program enables you to manage the \fBDbmail\fR users. 
It lets you add, delete and change users as well as show information about a specific user or display
a list of existing users.
It also has the capability of adding/removing separate aliases.

Options:
.TP
.BI \fIquiet\fR
Holds for all options. Suppresses all output to stdout.

.TP
.BI \fIa\fR
Add a user. Arguments:

.BI \fIusername\fR
The username of the user to be added. This username is used for access and authentication (through pop3 or imap4).

.BI \fIpassword\fR 
Cleartext password for user.  If the password is preceeded by '{crypt:}' the (cleartext) password will be encrypted. If the password is preceeded by '{crypt}' the password on the command line is assumed to be already encrypted.  If the password is preceeded by '{md5:}' the (cleartext) password will be saved as an md5 hash. If the password is preceeded by '{md5}' the password on the command line is assumed to be an md5 hash.  If the password is preceeded by '{md5sum:}' the (cleartext) password will be saved as an md5 digest. If the password is preceeded by '{md5sum}' the password on the command line is assumed to be the md5 digest.

.BI \fIclientid\fR 
This option enables users to be grouped. \fIclientid\fR specifies the owner of the user.

.BI \fImaxmail\fR 
The maximum number of bytes that this user is allowed to have in her/his mailbox(es). Size is in bytes, kilobytes (if the specified size is followed by a 'k') or megabytes (if the specified size is followed by a 'M')
If set to 0, there will be no limit.

.BI [\fIaliases\fR] 
Aliases for this user (user@domain.com). An alias is an e-mail address that is being 
delivered to the \fBDbmail\fR mailsystem and needs to be delivered to this user.

.TP
.BI \fIe\fR
Empties all mailboxes associated with the user specified by \fIusername\fR.

.TP
.BI \fId\fR
Delete a user specified by \fIusername\fR.

.TP
.BI \fIf\fR
Adds a separate forward of \fIalias\fR to \fIdeliver-to\fR.

.TP
.BI \fIx\fR
Deletes a separate forward of \fIalias\fR to \fIdeliver-to\fR.

.TP
.BI \fIc\fR
Change one or more user data items. Options:

.BI \fIusername\fR
The name of user whose data needs to be changed.

.BI [\fI-u\ username\fR]
The new username for this user.

.BI [\fI-p\ password\fR]
The new (cleartext) password for this user.

.BI [\fI+p\ password\fR]
The new (cleartext) password for this user which will be stored encrypted.

.BI [\fIxp\ password\fR]
The new crypt encryped password for this user.

.BI [\fI-5\ password\fR]
The md5 hash of the new password for this user.

.BI [\fI+5\ password\fR]
The new (cleartext) password for this user which will be stored as an md5 hash.

.BI [\fId5\ password\fR]
The md5 digest of the new password for this user.

.BI [\fID5\ password\fR]
The new (cleartext) password for this user which will be stored as an md5 digest.

.BI [\fI-P[:filename]\fR]
The new password for this user will be copied from '/etc/shadow' (default) or from \fIfilename\fR (if specified). These files are supposed to contain encrypted passwords, the passwords will be copied encrypted from the file.

.BI [\fI-c\ clientid\fR]
The new client-ID for this user.

.BI [\fI-q\ maxmail\fR]
The new mailquotum for this user. Size is in bytes, kilobytes (if the specified size is followed by a 'k') or megabytes (if the specified size is followed by a 'M').
If set to 0, there will be no limit.

.BI [\fI+a\ alias\fR] 
Add \fIalias\fR for this user.

.BI [\fI-a\ alias\fR] 
Remove \fIalias\fR for this user.

.TP
.BI \fIs\fR
Display a list of existing users or information on the user specified by \fIusername\fR (if specified).

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.BI
\fBdbmail-adduser\fR a foo secret 0 0 foo@bar.net foo@bar.org
This will add a user foo with password secret. This user will not have any limit on the mail
she/he will receive. E-mail to foo@bar.net and foo@bar.org are delivered to this user (user foo).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Errors and notifications are send to the trace output as set 
in the \fBDbmail\fR configfile.
.SH BUGS
.PP
No known bugs.
.SH LICENSE
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
Dbmail and it's components are (c) IC&S and distributed under the GPL. 
.SH AUTHOR(S)
.na
.nf
Eelco van Beek
Roel Rozendaal
IC&S 
Koningsweg 4
3582 GE Utrecht
http://www.ic-s.nl
