.TH DBMAIL-SMTP 1 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
dbmail-smtp
\-
inserts messages into the \fBDBMail\fR mailsystem.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dbmail-smtp
[\fB-t\fR \fIheaderfield\fR]
[\fB-d\fR \fIaddresses\fR]
[\fB-u \fIusernames\fR]
[\fB-m\fR \fImailboxname\fR]
[\fB-r\fR \fIreturn path\fR]
[\fB-f\fR \fIconfigFile\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
The 
.B dbmail-smtp 
program inserts messages from the commandline or from any MTA into the 
.B DBMail
mailsystem. The program reads from standard input.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "\fB-t\fR headerfield" 
Deliver messages to the recipient MIME header specified in 
.I headerfield. 
The default header to use is the "Deliver-To:" header.
.IP "\fB-d\fR addresses..."
Deliver messages to the recipients specified by 
.I addresses.
This option is mostly used for delivery from an MTA.
Seperate multiple addresses by spaces.
.IP "\fB-u\fR usernames..."
Deliver messages straight to a users with username 
.I usernames. 
Seperate multiple usernames with spaces.
.IP "\fB-m\fR mailboxname"
Deliver messages to mailbox \fImailboxname\fR of the recipient. If this mailbox does not exist yet, it is created.
.IP "\fB-r\fR returnpath"
Set return path for bounces and other error reports to 
.I return path.
.SH COMMON OPTIONS
.IP "\fB-f\fR configfile"
Specify an alternate config file. The utilities are currently hardcoded to use
/etc/dbmail.conf for their configs, and will halt if the config file
cannot be found. Use the \fB\-f\fR configfile option to specify your
system's preferred config file location.
.IP \fB-q\fR
Quietly skip interactive prompts and helpful status messages which
would otherwise be printed to \fIstdout\fR.  Use two \fB-q\fR's to
silence errors which would otherwise be printed to \fIstderr\fR.
.IP \fB-n\fR
Show the intended action but do not perform it, as though no to all.
.IP \fB-y\fR
Perform all proposed actions, as though yes to all.
.IP \fB-v\fR
Operate verbosely.
Some of the utilities in the DBMail suite can take two \fB-v\fR's
for extra verbosity. Those which don't understand this convention
won't complain about having the extra \fB-v\fR and will simply
operate at their normal verbosity.
.IP \fB-V\fR
Show the version and copyright, then exit.
.IP \fB-h\fR
Show a brief summary of options, then exit.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Errors and notifications are send to the trace output as set 
in the \fBdbmail.conf\fR file.

.SH BUGS
.PP
There are no known bugs.
.SH LICENSE
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
DBMail and it's components are (c) IC&S and distributed under the GPL. 
.SH AUTHOR(S)
.na
.nf
Eelco van Beek
IC&S 
Koningsweg 4
3582 GE Utrecht
http://www.ic-s.nl
