.TH DBMAIL-EXPORT 8 
.SH NAME
dbmail-export
\-
export a mailbox from the \fBDBMail\fR mailsystem to mbox format.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "dbmail-export [-u " "user" "] [-m " "mailbox" "] [-o " "outfile" "]"
.BI "[-f " "configFile" "]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBdbmail-export\fR program allows you to export a dbmail mailbox to 
an mbox formatted mailbox.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB-u\fR user"
specify the owner of the mailbox you want to export.
.IP "\fB-m\fR mailbox"
specify the mailbox you want to export.
.IP "\fB-o\fR outfile"
specify the file into which the exported mail will be saved.


.SH COMMON OPTIONS
.IP "\fB-f\fR configfile"
Specify an alternate config file. The utilities are currently hardcoded to use
/etc/dbmail.conf for their configs, and will halt if the config file
cannot be found. Use the \fB\-f\fR configfile option to specify your
system's preferred config file location.
.IP \fB-q\fR
Quietly skip interactive prompts and helpful status messages which
would otherwise be printed to \fIstdout\fR.  Use two \fB-q\fR's to
silence errors which would otherwise be printed to \fIstderr\fR.

.% Will be supported in the future.
.% .IP \fB-n\fR
.% Show the intended action but do not perform it, as though no to all.
.% .IP \fB-y\fR
.% Perform all proposed actions, as though yes to all.

.IP \fB-v\fR
Operate verbosely.
Some of the utilities in the DBMail suite can take two \fB-v\fR's
for extra verbosity. Those which don't understand this convention
won't complain about having the extra \fB-v\fR and will simply
operate at their normal verbosity.
.IP \fB-V\fR
Show the version and copyright, then exit.
.IP \fB-h\fR
Show a brief summary of options, then exit.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Errors and notifications are send to the trace output as set 
in the \fBdbmail.conf\fR file.
.SH BUGS
.PP
No known bugs.
.SH LICENSE
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
DBMail and it's components are (c) by their respective authors and distributed under the GPL. 
.SH AUTHOR(S)
.na
.nf
Paul J Stevens
NFG Net Facilities Group BV
http://www.nfg.nl
