.TH DBMAIL-IMAPD 8 
.ad
.fi
.SH NAME
dbmail-imapd
\-
provides access to the DBMail system to clients supporting
Internet Message Access Protocol, IMAP4r1,
as specified in RFC 3501.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.nf
\fBdbmail-imapd\fR [\fB-f\fR configfile] [\fB-p\fR pidfile] [\fB\-nvVh\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.ad
.fi
The \fBdbmail-imapd\fR daemon is a fully featured IMAP4r1 server. It will spawn
into a number of default processes as set in the \fBdbmail.conf\fR file. 
These processes will enable full IMAP4r1 communication with clients.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-f\fR configfile"
Specify an alternate config file. The daemons are currently hardcoded to use
/etc/dbmail.conf for their configs, and will halt if the config file
cannot be found. Use the \fB\-f\fR configfile option to specify your
system's preferred config file location.
.IP "\fB\-p\fR pidfile"
Specify an alternate pid file. The daemons are currently hardcoded to use
/var/run/dbmail-<daemon> for their pid files, and will halt if the pid file
cannot be written. Use the \fB\-p\fR pidfile option to place the pid file
in your system's preferred location.
.IP \fB-n\fR
No daemonize. The program remains attached to the console
from which it was started. This is quite useful for debugging when
combined with the \fB-v\fR option.
.IP \fB-v\fR
Operate verbosely. For daemons, this may only be useful
with the \fB-n\fR option which keeps the program bound to the console.
Some of the utilities in the DBMail suite can take two \fB-v\fR's
for extra verbosity. Those which don't understand this convention
won't complain about having the extra \fB-v\fR and will simply
operate at their normal verbosity.
.IP \fB-V\fR
Show the version and copyright, then exit.
.IP \fB-h\fR
Show a brief summary of options, then exit.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.ad
.fi
Errors and notifications are send to the trace output as set 
in the \fBdbmail.conf\fR file.
.SH BUGS
.PP
Since the RFC on IMAP4r1 is not very strict and consequently some e-mail
clients aren't either it's hard to make a fully compatible IMAP4r1 server.
However \fBdbmail-imapd\fR is tested and found compatible with most IMAP4r1
clients. \fBdbmail-imapd\fR will also have future configuration options
for specific client compatibility.
.SH LICENSE
.na
.nf
.ad
.fi
DBMail and its components are (c) IC&S and distributed under the GPL. 
.SH AUTHOR(S)
.na
.nf
Roel Rozendaal
IC&S 
Koningsweg 4
3582 GE Utrecht
The Netherlands
http://www.ic-s.nl
